A good job making it this far things are going to get more and more fun starting in this section because
we're now learning real tools that real companies use and that will get you hired in 2018 and devolvement
also becomes a lot faster because we're using these tools to make us build web sites faster and better.
So let's talk about re-act What do we have before we act.
Well as I've mentioned before we had Jay queery Jake where he was as you remember very imperative writing
code was like mixing ingredients sequentially.
If this happens then do this and then do that.
But also if this happens then do this and it creates a lot of inconsistency.
And if you remember the DOM manipulation section Well that is really really difficult and constantly
keeping track of what changed and what to change is a huge mess and it creates for a very slow development.
And as your website gets more and more complex it becomes very very hard to scale which means it becomes
very hard for teams of developers to manage it.
Now re-act was created at Facebook as you know Facebook is a pretty big app and a lot of things need
to happen for it to work well.
And they had this problem and the creator react as a way to solve this issue and be able to have a tool
that allows him to build web sites in a nice predictable way that you can have multiple developers working
on it at the same time.
And I like to use the analogy of a bread machine.
Using re-act is kind of like that.
You just throw in the ingredients and react does all this magic underneath the hood and puts out a website.
So it's very reliable and very consistent and it does one thing really really well and that is the view
it manages to make our Web sites the DOM change in predictable ways that is easy to scale and easy to
manage.
And the beauty of re-act is that because it's just the view it doesn't necessarily mean it's only for
browsers.
As a matter of fact a reactor can be used with mobile devices to build native apps.
It's used in virtual reality apps you can build desktop apps with re-act anywhere that has a view well
react can use it.
And big companies as I mentioned before Facebook and Instagram use react and Netflix users react whenever
you browse through movie choices Well that's using re-act underneath the hood.
It's a very very useful tool and in very high demand.
So I'm excited to talk about react and teach you this valuable skill in this section.
Now in order to understand re-act there's a few things that we want to go over and these are principles
that are very valuable that have been learned over the years by developers.
One is the idea of thinking in components up to this point we've just built websites.
Everything is just one javascript file one CSSA file one ASTM Alpha.
But wouldn't it be nice if the web was a network of these small components.
Think of them as Lego blocks where everybody builds a specific Lego block and you just combine these
Lego blocks to create your website.
That is the idea that re-act established let's use this as an example.
You first have atoms which as you can see here are icons and little small and divisible elements on
your website such as images.
There's some tax and you divide these into atoms.
From there you form molecules or combine atoms that have similar functionality such as the navigation
bar down here.
You combine individual atoms to out some functionality and then you have organisms again a little bit
bigger than molecules that combines to a bigger scale functionality.
And then finally have templates.
The combination of these organisms to give you an idea of how your app or website should look.
Finally you have your pages that is the page of your app.
And if you think in components as this image demonstrates what you're able to build small little components
that you can reuse and put on different parts of the webpage.
For example this backbone here if I build a re-act component that is the backbone I can now use that
on multiple pages.
And I don't have to rewrite the code if I wanted the navigation bar to be used in different areas of
the app.
Well again I don't need to rewrite the code I write at once and I can reuse it as a matter of fact even
shared with the world.
And this idea of components makes react to Maisy because right here I have a Web site that has three
components built by somebody and we can reuse these.
And it's not just CSX and a shemale.
But real functionality such as navigation bars and signing forms.
I can just download this Riak component and attach it to my website and because of the way react to
structured it doesn't really need to know about the rest of the web page is just its own local block
that works by itself by reducing dependencies on other parts of the Web site.
I can just plug this anywhere I want.
Another important concept with React is the idea of one way data flow.
The best way to describe it is by looking at this tree like structure in here you see that we have a
parent some children and then those children have their own children and those children have their own
children.
And the idea with reactors that data flows from top to bottom and never the other way around that is
if these red let's call them components change.
Well in that case only their children know about the change.
The parents don't really care about the change because well the direction of the data flow is just always
downstream.
So we go back to the idea of components if we had a website build on components and this was the page
and these were organisms and then molecules than atoms.
In that case the red components change and then only the ones below it.
As you can see here in blue know of this change and based on that they will act accordingly and change
as well.
Now without actually having a problem it's hard to understand this concept but trust me this is a very
important concept that re-act brought in.
It creates a lot of really nice bug free code and it is an idea that you'll understand more and more
as we start to code and react.
The next thing is the idea of virtual dog you know what the Dahmus the document object model.
And we also learned that one of the most important things as a developer is to minimize the amount of
dumb manipulation that we do because well web browsers has to have to work really really hard to achieve
that and it reduces the performance of the web page plus increases.
But I think this image demonstrates what react as really well beforehand.
We were the painters we told the dorm exactly what to do.
Remove this element then put this in and then also add this and color this this way with react.
We have this re-act bought and the Riak back create something called the Virtual dog virtual Dom is
just a javascript object and this javascript object that just describes our website.
The current state of the Web site and we just give it that object to react and then react by it will
automatically make changes to the Dom and paint the picture in the most optimum way possible.
So we just tell it hey this is the object.
This is what we want and the DOM and the re-asked takes care of Dom manipulation for you.
Remember how annoying it was to do Quesada luck to all then grab aliments by id and then doing all these
event handlers will react takes care of that.
So again the virtual Dom is just a copy of the dom that's in a javascript object and they react underneath
the hood just changes the view and that's why it's able to work outside of browsers and you can use
things like VR and and mobile devices because react as the machine.
And what the Camus's on.
Well we can change the canvas to whatever we want.
Finally re-act has a great ecosystem.
It is probably one of the biggest ecosystems and Javascript right now and there are so many tools that
worked with re-act as a matter of fact the developer community is so big that any problem you have there
is most likely a chance that somebody else has had it and has posted it on the Internet and you can
find solutions for.
You can find it react packages and 21:00 you can use it with Noad there's wetback in baseball that you
can use with it.
It's just a really good ecosystem that uses the latest javascript technology to build web sites in a
really nice elegant way.
Now one thing that I want to warn you about in this section we're going to see code like this.
And it's going to look very strange at first.
It's like the same way when you look at javascript the first dot.
It seemed like a whole new different world.
It will when you first look at this but trust me knowing what you know about javascript this becomes
really really easy.
You have classes that extends the Riak component and this is how we build components.
We have constructor again that we've seen and advanced objects and then each class has a mandatory render
function they you just tell it what this clock should render.
And as you can see it looks like a male is in it.
It's not exactly a male but the syntax is very similar.
So even by looking at this you see that this clock component.
Again this logo block just returns a Hello World.
H-1 tag with an H2 that says it is.
And then the time again just to give you a heads up you're going to hear words like props and state
and Riak components but these are just language syntax so you'll learn.
And it's actually quite easy once you get used to it.
So don't worry this is all going to make sense.
By the end of it you know what we're going to be building a pretty cool OP.
It's called Brabo friends and we're going to build this app that well searches through your robot friends
and you can find their contact information.
And as you can see it updates live.
It's super fast.
It's responsive.
It's going to be a lot of fun.
And we're going to build this pretty fast just to show you how powerful react is.
All right.
I'm really excited to get into this section.
You're going to have a lot of fun.
I'll see you in the next one.
Bye bye.